Before going further, let’s briefly review the sampling capabilities available
in PyAnalySeries.
The application allows you to redefine the sampling of your
series in a flexible and controlled way.
You can resample a dataset either using a regular step
or based on the X-values of another series.
An integration option is also available, allowing values to be
averaged over intervals.
Several interpolation methods are available, depending on the nature of
your data and the level of precision required.
These tools help standardize your datasets, make comparisons more robust
and prepare the data for further analysis or visualization.
Let’s now look at a concrete example.
We now focus on the record called “ PercAndes ”,
which reflects the relative contribution of Andean versus lowland input
from Amazonian terrigenous sediments deposited at the core site.
The record exhibits uneven temporal resolution over time, due to
a reduced sedimentation rate in the lower part of the
record.
To address this issue, we resample the record using a
regular step size.
Select the series, then go to Process → Define Sampling
Define the sampling parameters.
For example, resample the record every 2 5 0 years
by entering 0.
2 5 in the sampling step field.
The record now has a regular spacing of 0.
2 5 kyr.
You can then save both the sampling configuration and the
resampled series.
Let’s now inspect the resampled series.